What’s stdint.h?

stdint.h is a header file that provides a set of typedefs that specify exact-width integer types, and allows us to define the maximum and minimum allowable values for each type, with the naming convention of  intN_t for signed int and uintN_t for unsigned int, where N is the size in bits.

What’s the point of using uint8_t, uint32_t, int32_t, and uint16_t in a program?

you can determine the amount of space you want to fill up in a program, which is perfect for BMP since it needs 54 bytes from the start to fill up BITMAPFILEHEADER and BITMAPINFOHEADER, and so on.

How many bytes is a BYTE, a DWORD, a LONG, and a WORD, respectively?

BYTE = 8 bits = 1 byte
DWORD =  32 bits = 4 bytes
LONG = 32 bits = 4 bytes
WORD = 16 bits = 2 bytes

What (in ASCII, decimal, or hexadecimal) must the first two bytes of any BMP file be? Leading bytes used to identify file formats (with high probability) are generally called "magic numbers."

BM in ASCII, 0x424d in hexadecimal

What’s the difference between bfSize and biSize?

bfSize refers to the number of bytes required by the entire bitmap file while biSize refers to the number of bytes in the BITMAPINFOHEADER structure (which by standard is 40 bytes).

What does it mean if biHeight is negative?

if biHeight is negative, it means that the bitmap is a top-down BMP and thus the pixels in the image start from the top-left corner to the bottom right.

What field in BITMAPINFOHEADER specifies the BMP’s color depth (i.e., bits per pixel)?

biBitCount

Why might fopen return NULL in lines 24 and 32 of copy.c?

because the file names provided by the user may be incorrect and thus do not exist.

Why is the third argument to fread always 1 in our code?

the third argument in fread specifies the number of elements it reads. since we are reading a struct, it will always be 1 in our code.

What value does line 65 of copy.c assign to padding if bi.biWidth is 3?

3

What does fseek do?

fseek() takes in 3 arguments. the first argument is the file that you want to access. the second argument is the number of bytes further from your current position that you want to go to. the third argument sets where in the file you want to be in initially.
thus, fseek() simply moves you from your determined position in the file by N bytes, where N is the number of bytes you want to move.

What is SEEK_CUR?

SEEK_CUR is an integer constant that when used as a whence argument for fseek, specifies that the offset by N bytes is relative to your CURRENT position in the file.